README.md, before:

# OpenMV Cam ROS package

This package provides an interface between the [OpenMV Cam](https://openmv.io/) and [ROS](http://www.ros.org/).

Images are acquired by the camera and sent via USB to the ROS node which relays them as ROS image messages.

## Resolving dependencies

To resolve the dependencies run:

```sh
rosdep install --from-paths /path/to/your/catkin_ws/src --ignore-src
```

## Getting started

Connect the camera and copy the [main.py](util/main.py) file, either using the [OpenMV IDE](https://openmv.io/pages/download) or directly using the mounted storage device.
Remember to reset the camera via the IDE or eject the storage device to prevent data loss.

Launch the node as follows:

```sh
roslaunch openmv_cam openmv_cam.launch
```

By default, the node uses the following parameters:

```sh
roslaunch openmv_cam openmv_cam.launch \
    device:=/dev/ttyACM0 \
    image:=image_raw \
    camera:=camera_info \
    calibration:=$(rospack find openmv_cam)/calib/standard_lens.yaml
```

## Camera calibration

The [calib](calib/) folder contains calibrations for standard OpenMV lenses:

* Standard lens (included with the camera)
* [Ultra-wide angle lens](https://openmv.io/collections/lenses/products/ultra-wide-angle-lens)

The calibrations were obtained using the ROS [camera_calibration](http://wiki.ros.org/camera_calibration) package.

**Note**:
In order to obtain accurate calibration results for wide-angle cameras, consider using the [OpenCV fisheye calibration model](https://docs.opencv.org/3.4.8/db/d58/group__calib3d__fisheye.html) or the *equidistant* model from the [Kalibr visual-inertial calibration toolbox](https://github.com/ethz-asl/kalibr).
Both codebases rely on the [Kannala-Brandt calibration method](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1642666).

## License

The OpenMV Cam ROS package is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

Feature: update repository to work with ROS Noetic (#7)
* Docs: Update README with dependency

* Feature: small modification for 'snap' to work with ROS Noetic

* Shorten the camera_info_manager_py note

* Ensure backwards-compatibility to Python 2

For older ROS versions that use Python 2 (ROS Melodic and earlier)

Co-authored-by: Fabian Schilling <fabianschilling@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# OpenMV Cam ROS package

This package provides an interface between the [OpenMV Cam](https://openmv.io/) and [ROS](http://www.ros.org/).

Images are acquired by the camera and sent via USB to the ROS node which relays them as ROS image messages.

## Resolving dependencies

To resolve the dependencies run:

```sh
rosdep install --from-paths /path/to/your/catkin_ws/src --ignore-src
```

**Note**:
For ROS Noetic and later, the [`camera_info_manager_py`](https://github.com/ros-perception/camera_info_manager_py) package is not available via `apt-get` and has to be built from source.

## Getting started

Connect the camera and copy the [main.py](util/main.py) file, either using the [OpenMV IDE](https://openmv.io/pages/download) or directly using the mounted storage device.
Remember to reset the camera via the IDE or eject the storage device to prevent data loss.

Launch the node as follows:

```sh
roslaunch openmv_cam openmv_cam.launch
```

By default, the node uses the following parameters:

```sh
roslaunch openmv_cam openmv_cam.launch \
    device:=/dev/ttyACM0 \
    image:=image_raw \
    camera:=camera_info \
    calibration:=$(rospack find openmv_cam)/calib/standard_lens.yaml
```

## Camera calibration

The [calib](calib/) folder contains calibrations for standard OpenMV lenses:

* Standard lens (included with the camera)
* [Ultra-wide angle lens](https://openmv.io/collections/lenses/products/ultra-wide-angle-lens)

The calibrations were obtained using the ROS [camera_calibration](http://wiki.ros.org/camera_calibration) package.

**Note**:
In order to obtain accurate calibration results for wide-angle cameras, consider using the [OpenCV fisheye calibration model](https://docs.opencv.org/3.4.8/db/d58/group__calib3d__fisheye.html) or the *equidistant* model from the [Kalibr visual-inertial calibration toolbox](https://github.com/ethz-asl/kalibr).
Both codebases rely on the [Kannala-Brandt calibration method](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/1642666).

## License

The OpenMV Cam ROS package is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
